I thought I would find you here
Two out of my sister
Please say listen to this you are a holy people. Did you over your God?
And Jehovah your God has chosen you to become his people his special property
Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth
The words of Moses speaking to our people before they entered this land. Yes, and just before that
He told them to destroy all the idols of the gainonites. I
Wonders there are more idols in the land now than to worry then
At every turn are people bow and pray to them. You're doing all you can
But they don't listen
I listen
And I think you're great. You're like Elijah
I'm surprised Jehovah uses me at all
Well, I'm not you always want to do the right thing
It makes us proud
Jonah Jonah. Yes, my lord. Get up
Go to Nineveh the great city and proclaim judgment against her
For their wickedness has come to my attention
I think deserve the die his response is just gonna give himself kill you need to talk to him someone
He's a doctor. You prepared a meal for you. I'm not hungry
They haven't spoken a word to me in hours your brothers are young Jonah the news you brought to us this morning
It was heavy. What did your brother say?
It's lies afraid they'll kill me
Skin me alive. He doesn't think they should even be warned
Just let Jehovah slaughter them all
Nebber doesn't believe they will listen
What do you think
I think if it's Jehovah's will to destroy them
He wouldn't have commanded me to go, but I do think Eber is right
Why would they listen our own people don't listen and yet the warning still goes out
But when is Jehovah ever asked a prophet to go to a foreign land to preach judgment against it?
Jonah I
I don't have all the answers
To be sent to declare a judgment in the heart of his seren it's unlike anything Jehovah's asked his prophets to do before
But if his Jehovah's will that you should go then you should go
He must have good reason
For sending you there
trust him
Jonah Jonah look I'm going to pack you some cakes, too. I wish I could go with you
He's lies afraid they'll kill me
Skin me alive leaving without saying goodbye
You need to go back inside Joanna
But we had things prepared for you. You'll need them in Innova. You're not going in Innova. Are you no?
Tarshish no Jonah that's the wrong way go back we can talk to Father Joanna
I can't go to Nineveh I just can't do it
What will you do in Tarshish? What will you be back? I don't know
Maybe never
Never
Who's going to Nineveh?
Who's going to tell them what Jehovah said?
I'm sorry Joanna. I don't know what Jehovah will do, but I just can't do it. It's too much
He doesn't need me anyway. We need you and you're Jehovah's prophet
You're like Elijah remember not anymore
Go home Joanna. I'm sorry
But if his Jehovah's will that you should go then you should go
Trust him. The true God will show his concern for us and we'll not perish from the true
And living God he has brought this storm because of me
Where do you come from? What is your country?
What people are you? I am a Hebrew and I fear Jehovah the God of the heavens the one who made the sea and the dry land. I am
I was his prophet. What have you done?
He told me to go to Nineveh and deliver a message instead I ran away
What must we do to you to make the sea calm down for us?
What must we do me up and throw me into the sea and the sea will calm down for you?
But I know this is because of me that this violent storm has come upon you
May we not perish because of this man
It's a noun. Hold us responsible for innocent blood
Since you have done as you pleased
Not Jehovah. Ava's life for us
Our gods
Did nothing we should sacrifice to his God
For sparing us Jehovah out of the depths of the grave
I cried to you for help
Please hear my voice
I know I have been driven away from your sight
How will I gaze again upon your holy temple in my prayer come into you with a voice of thanksgiving I
Will sacrifice to you what I have vowed I
Will pay him as John grab his other arm. Yes
Why would a fish wall of you?
Well, I was in the water. Why are you in the water? I was on a ship
Then I was in the water
Because I
Tried to run away from Jehovah
The fish were you scared?
Yes
Did you pray a lot?
Why did you pray to God if you were running away from him?
Joanne, I thought you would have been back. I'm so sorry Joanne. Please forgive me
Mother waited for you to come home every day. He never gave up home
Fish how's that possible it was a miracle is lia Jehovah saved you
So what will you do now? I think it's time for everyone to get some rest. We can talk more tomorrow
Jonah, I'm sorry about the things I said before you left. I
Didn't realize no matter is lia my decision to run was my own
Thank you. Have you back sleep well my son father. Yes, I
Can't stop thinking about those men on that ship
All the cargo they lost the fear in their eyes
What if they didn't survive put them in danger?
The disobedience often hurts others Jonah
Not just ourselves
We'll pray for those men. Do you think Jehovah will ever use me again?
He's shown you mercy Jonah
He brought you home
Let's be content with that for now. I'm sorry
I know my son. I know
Let's try to get some rest
Jonah my lord. I'm so sorry. Go to Nineveh the great city and proclaim to her the message that I tell you
Yes
Yes, thank you. I will do as you command made you hope I'll be with you my son
He saved me from the heart of the sea
You can save me again in the days ahead. I made these cakes for you
Thank you, Jonah. How long will it take you to get to Nineveh?
Fall goes well maybe 40 days. May it go well. Are you traveling to Nineveh? I was just there
I was selling some horses. I'll tell you this
I'm glad to be going home. You should really be careful over there
That's what I've heard
Tell me about it
Well, the city is huge. It would probably take you
Three days to walk around it. The charades. They're the best in the world
And the horses the horses are magnificent
What about the people
The people
They worship gods of war
What do you think they're like?
They love conquest and violence
It's like bread to them
That's comforting
Don't worry
Just don't attract any attention to yourself
Stick to your business and you'll be just fine
What is your business anyway? I'm a prophet of Jehovah
He's sending me to proclaim judgment against it
The gods of war days more in just 40 days more
Nineveh will be overthrown in just 40 days more
Nineveh will be overthrown
It's 40 days more
Who could possibly overthrow? It looks like an Israelite
The true God has spoken
Highlets of this city has come to the attention of the true God
Jehovah the true God has spoken
This city will be destroyed
Nineveh will be overthrown
Jehovah the true God has spoken
Your city will be overthrown
In 35 days
This city will be destroyed
Nineveh will be overthrown
In 25 days
What should we do?
Listen
Should we flee the city?
You can't just leave here
Should we leave our homes?
Where should we go?
Listen
If we repent
Maybe his God will have mercy on us
According to the prophet
There is only 20 days left until the destruction of this city
Throughout the city
People are fasting
Putting on sackcloth
They are asking the prophet how Jehovah wants him to behave
And they're trying to do as he says
Is that what Jonas telling them to do?
No
The people simply reason that because there's a warning and time
Before calamity strikes
Maybe this God will change his mind
What else have we learned about Jonas?
Nineveh reported overhearing a conversation of Jonas
It seems originally he chose not to come
Instead he fled to Tarshish
But was thrown overboard
Then he claims Jehovah sent a fish
To swallow him and bring him back
Is he insane?
Maybe not
This man speaks for the God of Israel
A God of miracles
Known for his greatness and his power
He might be powerful in Israel
But we have our own gods here
True
But Jehovah is the one responsible for
Humiliating the gods of Egypt
Even destroying their army in the red sea
He's also the one who brought about the great flood
Mentioned in our histories
He did this because the people of the time
Were extremely violent
Call my scribe
And find the overthrow
The city will be destroyed
Hear the word of the king people of Nineveh
Hear the word of the king
By the decree of the king and his nobles
No man or beast
Her or flock
Should eat anything at all
They should not take food
Nor should they drink any water
Let them be covered with sackcloth
Both man and beast
And let them call earnestly to God
And turn from their evil ways
And from the violence they practice
Who knows
Whether the true God may reconsider what he intends to do
And turn back from his burning anger
That we may not perish
Something shard in the city
Could Jehovah change his mind
What would these people think of me
Could as a prophet if his words don't come true
Was this not my concern
When I was in my own land
That is why I tried to flee to Toshish in the first place
For I know that you are compassionate
And merciful God
Slow to anger
And abundant in loyal love
And one who feels creed over calamity
On Jehovah
Please take away my life
It is better for me to die than to live
Is it right for you to be so angry
Was that the city
Do you know your prophet of the true God
We have faith that you speak truth
Please stand our home
No
We will make you comfortable
Stay in the city
I grew so quickly
Jehovah still cares for me
Oh Jehovah let me die
Take my life
It is better for me to die than to live
It is right for you to be so angry
Over the bottle gourd plant
I have a right to be angry
So angry how would you die
You felt sorry for the bottle gourd plant
Which you did not work for
Nor did you make it grow
It grew in one night
And perished in one night
Should I not also feel sorry for Nineveh
The great city
In which there are more than 120,000 men
Who do not even know right from Rome
As well as their many animals
Mommy said he saved us
No
Jehovah saved you
I was just
I was just a messenger
Thank you
I've written about Nineveh
But also about Jehovah's great mercy
Both to the people there and to me
Was it hard to write about all that?
Painful
So what will you do now?
Whatever Jehovah asked me to do